These Perl scripts extract, and process, data from the Open Street Map planet database


Software license:  (c) Copyright 2023 by Richard Fobes at SolutionsCreative.com .  Permission to copy and use and modify this software is hereby given to individuals and to businesses with ten or fewer employees if this copyright notice is included in all copies and modified copies.  All other rights are reserved.  Businesses with more than ten employees are encouraged to contract with small businesses to supply the service of running this software if they also arrange to make donations to support the Open Street Map project.

For faster processing, latitudes and longitudes are converted into, and then handled as, positive integers, without a decimal point and without any minus sign.  To convert any such integer back into a signed decimal number, if the first digit is "1" then remove the "1" and insert a decimal point to the left of the right-most eight digits, or else if the first digit is "0" then add a minus sign and convert each digit to its "nines complement" value.  The "nines complement" conversion changes each "9" to "0", each "8" to "1", each "7" to "2", etc. down to each "2" to "7", each "1" to "8", and each "0" to "9".  Using this convention causes the numbers to have smooth transitions at the equator (10000000000) and zero meridian (10000000000).  Specifically the next point in the negative direction is "09999999999".  Note that these conversions are text-based so they do not involve converting to or from software-based "integers".
